Now let's start working on applying some textures to the Mech..
I think what I'm going to do is use the same technique that we did for the sand and the stairs just
apply a repeating texture.
So if I open up get up here open up a file I have in the images folder here I've got this metal j peg.
Let's open that up.
So what I'll do is just make this image seamless I'll just go to filter's map and make seamless and
now I can apply this directly to the Meck material and then increase the scale to repeat it.
So I'll export this out file export as and I'll put this in our textures folder and I'll call it metal
seamless
All right.
So back to Blendr now in Blender.
I'll go ahead and switch over to the U-V editing layout and with Mxs selected I'll go ahead and choose
the metal mech body and I don't really want to input the texture into the glossy material.
What I think I'll do is add a new shader here a press shift a and Shater and diffuse and this is what
will bring the texture into.
But I'd like to combine it with this glossy.
I still want it to have that kind of metal sheen to it.
So press shift A and under Shater I'll bring in mix Shater and I'll add that here in between and I'll
connect this up here so it's mixing between the glossy and the diffuse.
Now for the texture.
Let me first press control up arrow and I'm just going to make this screen a little bigger for now.
I'm going to press shift A and I'll bring in an image texture node and shift again and I'll bring in
and texture coordinate node under the input menu.
And I'll connect up the U-V to the image texture and I'll connect the image texture to the diffuse.
Now I'd like to grab that seamless texture we were just using under my textures folder here.
There's that metal seamless and I'll bring that in.
So press control up arrow to minimize that screen again.
And so there is texture.
Now it's kind of big I don't think we want to the scratches of the metal to be that big on the neck.
So let's go over here to the textures panel and let's play with the scale a bit.
So I'll increase the scale I'll try three little better than I'd like it to be a little bit smaller
still so I'll increase it to five.
Let's try that.
Yeah that may be a little bit better.
Just the size of the scratches.
There's a little bit more reasonable.
So now that we know the scale is going to be five.
Let's go ahead and add a bump node in here as well so I'll press control up arrow to make this a little
bit bigger.
And I'll take this texture note and press D and copy it and then I will press shift a and bring in a
bump node and I'll take their color here into the normal socket and the normal into the displacement
and I'll also bring this U-V right over here into that texture note as well.
So I had control Aperol again.
And now let's take a look at it in our render view.
I'm going to look at it from the back because that's really where the light is coming from and I'm going
to switch from textured to render the viewport shading.
Well that's looking pretty good.
We've still got the shine of the metal along with some nicks and scratches and even some bump.
Let me zoom in here and look at this mix Shater.
So if I take this mix Shater all the way to one side you can see that now it's only bringing in the
diffuse.
Now if I take the mix Shater all the way to the other side it's bringing in only the glossy.
So we had at it point five I want to try point six or seven.
See how that works.
Reduce the shine just a little bit.
Yeah that looks pretty good.
I'll go with that.
Now the other piece is the joints and the tubes.
They're looking kind of flat.
I think they need a little bit of glossy ness or shine to them a little bit of Specularia.
I'm going to select the rubber joints here the material and for this.
We've already got a diffuse coming in and that's good.
But I think we also need a glossy so I'll press shift a and bring in a glossy Shater and I'll press
shift day and bring in mix Shater.
So now we can mix between the diffuse and the glossy.
Now that's a little too much because we want it to still be a rubber type of material.
Maybe I'll bring that a little bit higher.
I think also the color of the glass needs to be more gray.
Like so.
So now we're getting more of a rubber type material however I think I want to make it even less shining
you on a really just have just a little bit in there.
I'm going to bring up the roughness in the glossy.
So there we have kind of what I'm looking for more of a spread out and distributed specular highlight
there something that kind of says this is not a real shiny material.
Maybe I'll even increase the roughness on the diffuse a bit.
See what happens there.
Yeah something like that.
OK.
How about the tubes.
Let's take a look at the tubes you're going to have to select them directly because there are currently
separate objects.
So for the tubes let's also add a glossy Shater and we'll do a little mixing here as well something
like that.
Once again I'll bring the color of the glossy down
and maybe increase the factor just a little fat maybe I'll increase the roughness of the diffuse quite
a bit.
See what happens there.
And maybe of the glossy as well.
All right.
So now we have the tubes.
What about this.
Trim the trim on the Mac is looking awfully shiny now in comparison to everything else.
So I'll select the Mac trim and let's work on this.
I see it's just a glossy So let's add a diffuse.
And also let's add a mix and try this.
Let's bring the color down a bit.
For now I think that looks pretty good.
Let me look at this back panel now.
We created a few materials for this too.
Now for these pieces we could add a bit of a mission to make the lights glow a little bit maybe.
And instead of a glossy for this add emission and all add a mix Shater and we'll try and mix between
the diffuse and the emission.
That's a little much.
Something like this.
However what we should do is make the color of the emission the same as the diffuse so all selected
this little eyedropper and then click that right in that color of the diffuse and that will make it
a similar color.
So now as it emits light it'll emit that purple.
We could try a glossy Shater here and see if that works any better.
To cut one of these connections you can press control and drag across and it'll cut the connection.
So now I'll try a glossy here and that gives it a little bit of shine as we go.
See how that works.
Maybe something like that.
The only part of the mech that we haven't dealt with yet is this light lens and we'll deal with that
when we set up the lights in the scene because we're going to have a spotlight shining out of this and
what we're going to want to do is one make this an emission shader.
And secondly we're going to want to allow a spotlight to shine through that object as if it's a lens.
So we'll look at those couple of things when we set up the lights and the scene.